# Multisine-signal-dataset
This repository contains the dataset for implementing simultaneous wireless information and power transfer (SWIPT) using multisine signals.

The data were obtained as follows:

A National Instruments Universal Software Radio Peripheral (NI USRP) 2920 device is used as a signal generator, and the Powercast P21XXCSR module is used as the energy harvester.

The proposed SWIPT design considers that the information is encoded by varying the number of tones in the multisine signals, while having the receiver simultaneously harvest energy. More specifically, for each multisine signal, several samples of the harvested power are collected across a set of distances and transmit power levels to expand and diversify the dataset. Each configuration contributes to the formation of features that are subsequently used to train the machine learning model on the generated data.

For the experimental measurements, we consider multisine signals with a number of tones $N \in \left\lbrace 2,4,8,16,32 \right\rbrace$. The USRP gain setting is $G \in \left\lbrace 31,27.9,23.25,20.15 \right\rbrace$ dB, and the transmitter-receiver distance is $d \in \left\lbrace 10,15,20,25,30,35 \right\rbrace$ cm. A fixed operating frequency of 915 MHz is considered.

More details can be found in the paper: (ArXiv link)

Abstract of the article:

This paper presents a novel methodology for employing multisine waveforms in simultaneous wireless information and power transfer (SWIPT) systems, utilizing software-defined radio tools. The proposed approach encodes information by varying the number of carriers in the multisine signals, while simultaneously enabling the receiver to harvest energy. A comprehensive dataset is generated by transmitting various waveforms and measuring the harvested power across different distances. The primary objectives are to accurately classify the received waveforms to extract information and validate the dataset using established machine learning techniques. Experimental evaluations demonstrate that basic supervised machine learning models, specifically multinomial logistic regression and support vector machine, achieve a high accuracy of 99.2$\%$ and 100$\%$, respectively. These results underscore the capability of the proposed system to effectively distinguish not only between binary signal classes but also among multiple signal classes.
